
# Day 02 

### NPM:- 

- npm is package manager for node js. npm has two things  
    1):- CLI is for downloading package using commond line

    2):- online repository for publishing the packages 
- Every Node application has a package.json file that includes metadata about the
application. This includes the name of the application, its version, dependencies,
etc.
- We use NPM to download and install 3rd-party packages from NPM registry:
- All the installed packages and their dependencies are stored under
node_modules folders. This folder should be excluded from the source control.
- Node packages follow semantic versioning: major.minor.patch
- Useful NPM commands are:






#### Install a package 

```bash
  npm i <packageName>
```
### parcel/webpack:-

parcel and webpacks are bundler. Bundler is used to merge multiple file into single
file which is called bundle. bundle is used to load entire webpage at once. bundler
provides the features like HMR, dev server, code spliting and much more.

### .parcle-caches:-

parcel caches everything it to rebuild to disk. if you restart the dev server then parcel 
only rebuild those file that is changed after last ran. Parcel keep tracks of all the file. 
By default the cache is stored iin .parcel-cache.

### npx :-

- npx is tool that are used to execute the packages. If the package are not already
Installed they will automatically Install them.

### dependencies vs Devdependencies:-

A dependency is a library that a project needs to function effectively.	
DevDependencies are the packages a developer needs during development. 

### Tree shaking:-

Tree shaking is an algorithm that are used to remove dead code while bundling with
the help of bundler like webpack,parcel,browserfy. 

### Hot Module Replacement:-

HMR is tool that are used to update the browser at runtime without needing whole 
page refresh.

### .gitignore :- 

If we do not want to push a particular file in git then with the help of .gitignore
file we add that file .gitignore and then git does not tracks that file.

-it should contain files/folders generated by the OS, IDE.

- temporary or cached folders/files
- node_models, dist folder
- log files
- hidden files
- personal files

### package.json vs package.lock.json:-

- Every Node application has a package.json file that includes metadata about the application. This includes the name of the application, its version, dependencies,etc. 
- package.lock.json is automatically generated when we run any npm command.It is kind of much more specific description of dependencies from package.json. It include not just dependencies and the version number and but also exactly where the dependencies coming from. and verify that package is not corrupt with integrity check and also includes version and information all of the dependencies in the tree not just direct dependencies.

### why should not modify package.lock.json:-

We should not modify package.lock.json because when we start developing our project
then we install project dependencies. In package.lock.json , all the dependencies
exact version are stored during developing when we will modify package.lock.json
there may be chance changed dependencies version when we run npm command and also
there may be a chance of different behaviour of our application so that's why 
we should not modify package.lock.json.

### node_models:-

- In node_models, all the dependencies code are stored which are needed by our application and also dependencies is also depends on some other code that is also stored. 
- It is not good practice to push node_models to git because all our application dependencies is stored in package.json and when we run npm i then all dependencies automatically will install.

### dist:-

dist the minified version of our project that is build for production. dist folder 
is created when we build our project.

### browserlist:-

browserlist is used to specify which browser is supported by your frontend application
by specifying in config file.

### noscript tag:-

noscript tag is used for providing alternative content for the browser in which
script tag is not supported. 

### manifest.json:-

manifest files provide the capability to change how an installed application will look like on the user's desktop or mobile device.